So when it comes to creating a server,
or an application, or
anything really,
you have to have a way of login.
Generally, most people use username and
password, that's pretty well established.
Pretty low friction,
we're all pretty used to it.
But what's the problem with
using a username and password?
Anybody, throw out.
>> Someone else has the credentials,
they can get in.
>> Yeah, someone can steal your
credentials very easily, what else?
>> Someone could guess them or
steal them, change them on you.
>> Yeah.
What else?
>> It can be sniffed over the wire?
>> They can be sniffed, yeah.
Yeah, also, you can lose them pretty
easily, you can forget your password.
And humans tend to do this, so we all tend
to fall back to the same set of patterns.
So we're talking about computer science
here in software engineering, but
really we're talking about human behavior.
In human behavior,
we're very predictable creatures.
In fact, These passwords here to
the left are the most commonly
used passwords on the Internet.
Password is still the most commonly
used password, it's incredible.
We all know, we all hear about hacks,
we all hear about losing credentials,
things like that.
Yet, humans are such that we are so
against changing our own
behavior that we do things that
are counter to our benefit.
It's really incredible honestly.
So, yes, there's a question.
>> A couple of people online said
they can easily be forgotten, and
then one person said you can't
use them with the command line.
>> Yeah,
you can use them with the command line.
You wouldn't want to, there's better
ways if you're already on command line.
There's better ways to do it,
but that's good thinking.
So username and password,
probably not the best idea
to secure our future billion dollar
application on DigitalOcean.
So we can use biometric login.
The problem with biometric login,
it's not super portable,
not all devices support it.
Actually, I'd say most
devices don't support it.
You have to enact its own standards.
It's pretty much not standard right now,
that is changing slowly.
I would say in ten years, we will see
a lot more biometric authentication,
cuz it actually just makes sense.
A lot simpler using your thumb, or
your face, or something like that, but
we're not there yet.
So what we're gonna use is,
we're gonna use an ssh key.
SSH is one of the more powerful concepts
when it comes to server authentication,
probably the most powerful.
And the fact that I won't say
you can't go wrong with SSH key,
but it's really hard to do things bad.
And no one's ever gonna
guess your SSH key ever.
I won't say ever,
quantum computing, who knows?
But we'll say, in our lifetimes,
it is unlikely your SSH key will ever
get guessed, unlike your password123,
which I've probably already
guessed your password.
And we talked about why
we don't use passwords,
even a long one is pretty easy to crack.
So even one made of symbols and
characters,
it's about two years on a basic desktop
computer, so something I have at home.
Now if I had dedicated hardware running an
entire server dedicated getting into your
password, I could do it
in a couple of seconds.
What this table doesn't show you is that
people, again, are really predictable.
We don't use the underscore,
ampersand, P capital thing,
capital Y, and it's like gibberish.
We use things that
are recognizable to ourselves.
So we might use password, but
we'll use an @ instead of the A.
Again, I probably just guessed some
of your passwords right there, and
we think we're being smart.
But the problem is, the people of
the world, I won't say bad people.
I hate saying bad and good.
But the people in the world that
are dedicated to getting your password
know this.
And they know all the possible
combinations of password.
They know it's password123,
capital P, all that.
So there's not a lot of entropy
in the passwords we actually use.
The real way to make a password
is completely computer-generated.
And what a random one looks like is,
let's generate
a new password here, and
I'm gonna say symbols too.
So I'm using something called 1Password,
a password manager,
which I highly recommend.
If you don't use a password manager,
use a password manager today.
Don't use LastPass,
their security is very questionable.
Use 1Password or KeePass,
whatever you want.
Don't use LastPass, professional tip.
If I'm using 1Password,
I use it generate all my passwords.
I don't know the password
to any of my logins.
I know one password that goes
to 1Password, hence, the name.
But this is the way you should do it,
because I am not reliable.
I don't trust myself.
I know that if you ask
me to make a password,
I will make same version of passwords
even if I don't think I'm being random.
If I think I'm being random,
I'm being very predictable.
So this is what a real
random password looks like.
But that'd be a pain to type in, and
you're like, is that a T, is that an I,
is that an L?
So we use SSH keys for
logging into our server,
because we want it to be
as secure as possible.
More secure than your bank,
more secure than your phone,
more secure than anything.
Because if someone gets
a hold of your server,
they can do anything they want to it.
They can mine Bitcoin, they can use it to
launch DDoS attacks against other people.
They can use it to serve illegal content.
They can do all sorts of
bad things on your server.
And when the FBI comes,
it's on you, cuz it's your server.
Hence, we don't use username and
passwords for servers.
And we talked about kind of
the predictable passwords.
There's something in security
called a dictionary attack.
In dictionary attack,
it takes all of your randomness.
Like this one with the password,
instead of a, you add a 12,
that's in the dictionary somewhere,
that's really easy to guess.
And computers can generate every single
possible combination of the word password.
So you think you're being secure and
random, but you're not.
A real randomness looks like that,
which doesn't look anything like password.
But again, humans are gonna do this,
you're not gonna remember this.
So whenever you think you're being
clever and you have like, my password is
onomatopoeia564, that's super easy to
guess, that's all in the dictionary.
The dictionary takes a couple of kilobytes
to load the entire English language.
And it takes milliseconds for
a computer to run through all
those possible combinations.
Again, I'd say I'm not trying to scare
you, but I am trying to scare you.
You should not rely on passwords for
most things you want.
If you do, they should be very long and
very random generated by a computer.
But at the core, really,
when we talk about SSH keys,
we're talking about this
concept of hashing.
Does anybody know what hashing is?
And not hash browns like
you have at Waffle House.
What's a hash?
>> Like a one-way algorithm.
>> It can be one-way,
it can be two-way too.
Yeah, anybody else, Mark?
>> Encryption method.
>> It can be an encryption method,
it can also not be an encryption method.
We do use it for encryption, but that's
not all it's used for, that's a good-
>> Verify or
validate, The information in the file for
instance.
>> That's a great use case.
Yeah, verifying and
validating the file is actually intact.
Yeah, so hashing is an amazing
way of storing a larger
amount of information in
a small bunch of characters.
So what we're doing is
we're taking some data,
which is just a string of bits and bytes.
We're running it through a mathematical
function called a hash function.
And what's outputed is,
it's called a hash.
And there's different
kinds of hashing function.
So if you want a simple definition of
hashing, you take some sort of input,
you run it through some math, and you
get output of numbers, and letters, and
characters.
That's probably the easiest
way of putting it.
And there's different types of hash for
different ends.
So the first hash that probably most
people may have heard of, or maybe not,
I don't know, I'm kind of a nerd,
is called MD5.
MD5 used to be what we used
as a cryptographic hash.
So we take your password, and
we say, here's your password,
we're gonna run it through MD5, and
then now it's a hash of random numbers.
The problem with that, and we learned
this very odd in the early days of
the Internet, is MD5 is very predictable,
it's not long enough.
So you can take your hash and
its password, and
we run it through MD5, and
we're going to get this number.
Actually, let me just show you.
Why am I talking?
I'll show you this is all built
into your operating system.
This is what's great about Unix or
Linux-based systems.
So I'm gonna say clear.
Oops, may kill my server.
First, Ctrl+C, if I got it still running.
Say, clear, we can say temp, it's fine.
So I want to hash my password,
but how do I do that?
I need to write it to a file first.
So I can write a file, or
I can be really lazy and shortcut.
So I'm gonna say echo password,
and I'm gonna use double arrow.
And we'll talk a bit more about
redirection later in the course.
But double arrow essentially
means append to a file, and
I'm just gonna call the file foo.
[LAUGH] I forgot when I was playing
around, I made a directory called foo.
Okay, you probably won't run into that,
all right, so there we go.
There's foo, we can cat foo,
we see password's in there.
So we're gonna use
a program called OpenSSL.
And remember, if you don't trust me,
which you shouldn't, cuz I've got a very,
very sketchy face, you can always man
the commands that I'm telling you.
So again, I want you to know
these things and why they exist,
not just following me along.
So OpenSSL is a cryptography
toolkit implementing the TLS
security layer that follows
cryptography standards.
So what we're gonna use that for
today is, it has all these hashes.
It has MD5, it has SHA-1,
it has SHA-256 in there.
So let's play around with this
a little bit, we'll have a little fun.
Again, I'm a nerd, so my idea of fun
is maybe a little different from yours.
So we want to hash our foo file
with the word password in it.
So we're gonna say openssl, and
the hash we're gonna use is md5.
And then,
the file we're gonna use is called foo.
And we're gonna pipe this to
something called awk, A-W-K.
And again, don't take my word for
it, let's man awk.
Awk is a program built in, I'll just
read it, pattern-directed scanning and
processing language.
Essentially, you can take an output,
you can parse it to make it
look like some other output.
So output in Linux using standard
out is usually column-based.
So we can use awk to pick those
columns of data, and then output that.
So we can do a lot of things on the fly.
When you see people who are really
good at Unix in the command line,
they'll be awk, sed, grep,
they'll do all these commands.
And you're like, what did they do?
It's magic.
They somehow took this giant log file and
outputed just the things they care about.
And again, that's the power of
really good at these tools.
But anyways,
we won't go too deep into that, oops.
Jump back to where I was, clear.
So we were on openssl, and
we chose MD5, we chose foo as the file.
And we're gonna pipe,
that bar is called the pipe.
So we're just taking all the output
from OpenSSL in this command, and
we're gonna pipe it into the next command.
So it's awk, we're gonna take the file.
And we're gonna say,
this one I'm using my notes,
this is not a natural
thing I do every day.
So we're gonna use awk,
and we're gonna say, and
I know the syntax is
a little strange here.
So we're gonna say we're gonna print, and
we want the second column
from the output there.
So we're gonna say number $2, and
then we're gonna close that off.
Oops, I put in too many here.
And let's see what this says,
awk: no program given.
Doing something wrong here,
no program given.
So let's just try looking at the output
first just to make sure we're
getting that far.
Okay, md5 foo, so
what we want is the second output here.
Actually, we actually won't need it,
I will figure this out later.
So we're running that foo with the word
password in it through MD5, and
this is the output that we get.
But you know what the problem here is.
This output, this hash,
it looks kind of random, but
are we all getting the same hash?
Are we all getting this number?
Yeah, so maybe MD5 isn't the best hash.
Because I can run through all
the common passwords, and
I can MD5 hash them, and then I have
now what's known as a rainbow table.
A rainbow table is the output of hash
files that map to a specific word or
phrase that's really commonly used.
Again, computers can do this really,
really easily.
So there are rainbow tables for probably
every word in the English language, MD5,
every password combination,
it's already there.
So we don't use MD5 anymore,
it's very easily breakable.
Again, we always arrive at the same
results, so not very good.